## Custom components

On this page, you can see how it is possible to integrate Vue components inside a markdown page.

Nuxt MDC automatically reads the `app/components/mdc` directory and registers the Vue components it finds inside it.

This means that we can include previously developed Vue components inside our markdown files, such as the following `CustomButton.vue` component:

::custom-button{color = 'green'}
This is a Button
::

**Block components** can be inserted using the `::component-name` syntax. Block components **must** be closed with `::` on the next line.

**Inline components** can be opened with `:component-name` without the need to close them.

**Slots** can be passed to the components adding text on a new line between the two `::`. In case of _named slots_ the slot contenti line needs to be preceded by `#slot-name`, such as `#default`.

**Props** can be passed to the components using the `{prop-name = 'value'}` syntax.

```md
::custom-button{color = 'green'}
This is a Button
::
```

Or using the YAML-like syntax (in this case the props need to be delimited by two `---` lines, and the slots **must** go on a new line below):

```zsh
::custom-button
---
color: green
---

This is a Button
::
```

## Snippets

Snippets are a special type of component that can be used to include reusable markdown text in your markdown files.

For block snippets, `::snippet{name='snippet-name'}` like a block Vue component, and the snippet content will be rendered inside the component.

```md
::snippet{name='alert'}
::

::snippet{name='calendar'}
::
```

> The code above will render this:

---

::snippet{name='alert'}
::

::snippet{name='calendar'}
::

---

For inline snippets, just add the inline component syntax `:snippet-inline{name='snippet-name'}`.

```md
Hello, my name is :snippet-inline{name='giorgio'}
```

> The code above will render this:

---

Hello, my name is :snippet-inline{name='giorgio'}

---
